# Introduction to Terraform: Generating Random Values

In this lesson, you will learn how to use Terraform to generate random values that can be used in various applications.

## What are Terraform Resources?

Terraform resources are the basic building blocks that are used to describe the infrastructure you want to manage. Terraform provides a variety of built-in resources for different purposes, including generating random values.

## Generating Random UUIDs

A universally unique identifier (UUID) is a standard for generating unique IDs. Terraform provides a `random_uuid` resource that can be used to generate random UUIDs.

```hcl
resource "random_uuid" "guid" {
}
```

The code above creates a `random_uuid` resource named `guid`. The empty braces `{}` indicate that there are no additional parameters for this resource.

## Generating Random Strings

Terraform provides a `random_string` resource that can be used to generate random strings of a specified length with special characters.

```hcl
resource "random_string" "random" {
    length           = 16
    special          = true
    override_special = "/@£$"
}
```

The code above creates a `random_string` resource named `random`. It specifies the following parameters:

* `length`: the length of the generated string
* `special`: indicates that special characters should be included in the generated string
* `override_special`: specifies the special characters to be included in the generated string

## Generating Random Passwords

Terraform provides a `random_password` resource that can be used to generate random passwords of a specified length with special characters.

```hcl
resource "random_password" "password" {
    length           = 16
    special          = true
    override_special = "!#$%&*()-_=+[]{}<>:?"
}
```

The code above creates a `random_password` resource named `password`. It specifies the following parameters:

* `length`: the length of the generated password
* `special`: indicates that special characters should be included in the generated password
* `override_special`: specifies the special characters to be included in the generated password

## Displaying the Generated Values

To display the generated values, Terraform provides an `output` block.

```hcl
output "guid" {
    value = random_uuid.guid
}

output "random_string" {
    value = random_string.random
}

output "password" {
    value = random_password.password
    sensitive = true
}
```

The code above defines three outputs:

* `guid`: displays the value generated by the `guid` resource
* `random_string`: displays the value generated by the `random` resource
* `password`: displays the value generated by the `password` resource

Note that the `password` output is marked as sensitive by setting `sensitive = true`, which means that the actual password will not be displayed in the console, but will be stored in a secure manner.

## Conclusion

In this lesson, you learned how to use Terraform resources to generate random values, including UUIDs, strings, and passwords. You also learned how to display the generated values using Terraform's `output` block. By using Terraform's built-in resources, you can easily generate random values for various use cases in the educational industry, such as generating student IDs, class codes, or teacher passwords.
